----- PlayStation's Project Q is missing the handheld mark, here's why -----

I don't put much stock in gaming "insiders" on Twitter. For the most 
part, it feels like they just make sweeping, educated guesses that 
anyone who keeps up with the news could make. So when I heard the 
rumors circulating about a Sony handheld device that would be revealed 
at the PlayStation Showcase, I was very skeptical.  As it turns out, 
those analysts didn't exactly have it right either. Yes, Project Q was 
shown off during the PlayStation Showcase and yes, it's a gaming 
device you hold in your hands. But in terms of what we'd call a 
handheld gaming device today, I'm not sure it really qualifies. 
Project Q, as far as we know, only works with a PS5 tethered over 
wifi, so it isn't exactly something you can truly take on the go and 
use as a PlayStation-Switch if Remote Play has to be involved. Remote 
Play is PlayStation's answer to GamePass, and requires a PS5 console 
to be either switched on or in standby mode, allowing you to stream 
PS5 games to your phone and play with one of the best mobile 
controllers. 

Project Q looks like it will only play games that have been downloaded 
and installed on a PS5 too, so it's not exactly a substitute for 
buying a home console like the Steam Deck is. The appeal of portable 
gaming PCs like a Deck or an ASUS ROG Ally is that you can take one on 
the go or dock it with a Steam Deck dock to play at home. It doesn't 
require you to have a gaming PC already that you're tied to. So where 
does Project Q fit into the market then? I'd say it's Sony's foray 
into the mobile gaming market, but the Backbone One PlayStation 
Editions already exist.  Perhaps more importantly, who is this device 
for? As funny as the emerging memes are, the closest comparison to 
Project Q might genuinely be a Wii-U, which feels like a major step 
backward. For folks who just want an extra screen to play on while 
someone's using the TV, I can understand the appeal, but there must be 
an easier way of going about it that doesn't warrant the high price 
this thing will no doubt have.  

With the born-again handheld gaming scene being what it is at the 
moment, and the demand from PS Vita stans being more present than 
ever, there are some fairly obvious-seeming beats Project Q seems to 
have missed. 


The reason I think the Nintendo Switch sent shockwaves out into the 
wider games industry is that it nails the one thing portable gaming 
has always lacked. Yes, you want to be able to take games on the go, 
but you want a seamless way of playing the same games when you're at 
home in a more stationary setup. Not only that, but it's a cheaper 
alternative to a more powerful stay-at-home platform. That's why The 
Steam Deck and its emergent market have done so well - it's proven 
there's a serious demand there for that type of gaming.  

Project Q, if it's only for streaming games from a PlayStation 5 you 
have to own first, misses the appeal of those devices entirely. If 
Sony isn't going to make a PS5 Pro, why not really hit Nintendo and 
Valve where it hurts, and attack the new-found market for portable 
gaming properly? 

The PS5 is expensive enough, so the idea of paying more for a beefed- 
up version that, let's face it, just isn't necessary at the moment, is 
ludicrous. But a cheaper PS5 that has portability and a few minor 
downgrades in its specs? You'd best believe that would have been a 
fire-starter - if you don't believe me, look at how well the Steam 
Deck and Nintendo Switch are selling. 

As it stands, Project Q won't likely add anything to the PS5 ecosystem 
you can't do already. Mobile gaming is easily the biggest platform in 
the industry, and the officially licensed Backbone One PlayStation 
Editions shows it's worth the Japanese console giant's time. But with 
those mobile controllers already on the market for probably cheaper 
than Project Q, it makes me ask what the point is.  

Who wants to spend extra for a controller with a screen when, as far 
as we know, it has the exact same functionality as the phone in your 
pocket?  


Project Q just feels a bit anti-consumer to me, and its biggest rival 
shows us why. Xbox's route into attacking the portable market is the 
same as its answer to any other. Game Pass - with its one-liner being 
"play on the device you own".  

There's no need to buy an Xbox, nor an Xbox handheld, to have genuine 
access to the library of games you're subscribed to. Remote Play 
doesn't quite live up to that, because it requires you to have a PS5 
first and foremost, and have it at least on standby and connected to 
WiFi. 

What Sony could have done, was make a PS Plus app that has the same 
cloud gaming functionality as the Game Pass one. But instead, it's 
coming out with Project Q, which I'd be willing to bet will be around 
$300 if not more. And that's on top of a PS5 purchase, remember. 

That isn't even bringing into question that Project Q has "all the 
same buttons of a regular DualSense", because if that's true, I'd bet 
it'll suffer the same stick drift issues and battery life problems we 
know from that gamepad already. I had enough problems with Sony not 
having an authentic solution to the potentiometer sticks in the 
DualSense Edge, never mind a handheld that will probably cost more. 


I'm trying to stay somewhat measured here because we have such limited 
information on Project Q. But from what Jim Ryan said in the showcase, 
this seems like a very misjudged and anti-consumer move into the 
handheld scene that won't live up to the potential of what a new 
PlayStation handheld could be. I'm not optimistic, because if Project 
Q was going to have features that rival the biggest handheld 
competition, sure Jim would have been shouting about it straight out 
of the gate. 

If you need a PS5, you need it to be connected via WiFi, and you can 
only play games you have installed, Project Q is a really hard sell to 
me. Sony is already late to the party in the new handheld scene, so I 
don't know why the device they're cooking up seems like a Wii-U. In a 
day and age where handheld gaming is becoming more and more advanced, 
this feels like a serious step back. 

Upgrade your PS5 loadout in other ways by looking at the best PS5 
accessories, the best PS5 controllers, and the best TV for PS5 and 
Xbox Series X. 


Link to the original article: https://www.gamesradar.com/playstations-project-q-is-missing-the-handheld-mark-heres-why/