----- Phantom Blade Zero is the perfect post-Elden Ring tonic I've been waiting for -----

Phantom Blade Zero became an instant, if unexpected contender for best 
in show at yesterday's PlayStation Showcase. A labor of love in the 
truest sense with a lineage that spans well over 10 years, this blood- 
spilling, bold and boisterous action-RPG has flavors of Sifu, Dark 
Souls, Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, and, mostly as a result of the 
latter two, Elden Ring. I've spent a long time in the, ahem, loving 
throes of all four, and now want nothing more than for Phantom Blade 
Zero to lead me by the hand into its 'Kungfupunk' world, and chop me 
up with a masterfully-timed display of brutal swordsmanship.  

The term Kungfupunk – a portmanteau combining 'Kung Fu' and 'punk', 
assumedly – is one that I reckon might turn me away in a fit of cringe 
in other circumstances, but Phantom Blade Zero's mention of converging 
worlds and incongruous disciplines is interesting, and it all looks 
bloody fantastic in motion. I've longed for dedicated Elden Ring 
samurai DLC content for some time, and while Phantom Blade Zero is 
still without a concrete release date, I cannot wait to see what it's 
got in store from here. 



Rise of the Ronin is another game that offers a glimpse into life 
after Elden Ring 

Standing on the shoulders of indie outfit S-Game's previous Rainblood 
series, Phantom Blade Zero carries the action-RPG torch from the RPG 
Maker engine and smartphones, to Unreal Engine 5 and the PS5 
respectively. Not that Rainblood was some grassroots basement project 
that failed to get off the ground – what started as a distraction for 
the creator while studying Architecture in Beijing, grew into a 
popular series boasting a fanbase of "over 20 million" players. S-Game 
describes Phantom Blade Zero as "the spiritual rebirth of the original 
Rainblood", and while I've admittedly not played Rainblood in any 
shape or form before (the games weren't released outside of China), 
I'm more than happy to take the creator at their word.  

Because Phantom Blade Zero looks awesome. The PlayStation Showcase 
reveal trailer teased narrative elements – including a mysterious 
figure whose cracked porcelain face reminded me of Dark Souls' 
Priscilla in The Painted World of Ariamis; and a slew of larger-than- 
life boss characters who could be easily have been plucked from the 
depths of Elden Ring's dungeons – but its in-game combat footage 
absolutely dazzled.  

Fast and frantic close-quarters combat followed epic maneuvers that 
saw the player charging down swathes of enemies, sword always raised 
and guard never broken. At one point the player takes cover behind a 
pillar, leveraging the wooden upright as cover. At another, they 
sprint up a wall, before smashing back to earth with so much force 
their hulking foe loses their footing. The same disregard for gravity 
and the laws of physics applies to traversal – we see the player 
running vertical across stony chasms to reach higher ground – by my 
own favorite moment among all of this blistering action was when the 
player stormed the battleground against several foes, deflected the 
bullets of one ranged enemy, sprinted towards another two, and kicked 
one in the face, while simultaneously slashing another across the jaw 
with an extended blade with the agility of a gymnast.  


"'Patience is the key, master,' says an unnamed and unseen character 
during Phantom Blade Zero's reveal trailer. And now it's time for us 
to practice what they preach." 

It's not always fair to compare one game with another, but having 
spent literally hundreds of hours enjoying myself in Elden Ring's 
Lands Between, I think it's only natural that I've begun to dream of 
pastures new. I absolutely adored Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice's 
fantastical take on feudal Japan, and its steep but fair learning 
curve that steadily transformed you from hapless button-basher, to 
master sword-fighter. Sifu's meticulous Chinese martials arts-inspired 
combat was so, so punishing but never unfair – and so to be given 
vibes from all of these masterpieces here, I reckon that's pretty 
exciting.  

You might be on the same boat, and while it's early days yet for 
Phantom Blade Zero, while we continue to wait for Elden Ring's Shadows 
of the Erdtree DLC, and, like any hints of a Sekiro sequel, I think 
it's fine if we allow ourselves to dream. "Patience is the key, 
master," says an unnamed and unseen character during Phantom Blade 
Zero's reveal trailer. And now it's time for us to practice what they 
preach.  

While we wait for Phantom Blade Zero, check out 10 games like Elden 
Ring 


Link to the original article: https://www.gamesradar.com/phantom-blade-zero-is-the-perfect-post-elden-ring-tonic-ive-been-waiting-for/