----- Alan Wake 2 isn't what I was expecting, and it's all the better because of it -----

It was impossible to anticipate what Remedy Entertainment would do 
with Alan Wake 2. Trust me, I've spent much of the last decade trying 
to dream this sequel into reality. Wake's long-awaited escape from the 
Dark Place had always seemed so obvious to me: the writer would 
commence work on a new novel, allowing us to explore a twisted shadow 
of Bright Falls while Wake inadvertently rewrote reality around him, 
with Remedy using this frame to pull focus onto larger combat 
scenarios and a more authored open world – less of a Departure, and 
more of a continuation. Thankfully, Remedy has gone in an entirely 
different direction with its upcoming sequel for PC, PS5, and Xbox 
Series X.  

The Alan Wake 2 set for release on October 17 appears to be far more 
thematically adventurous, mechanically interesting, and narratively 
dense than anything I could have ever imagined that we'd get. Wake has 
spent the last 13 years as a prisoner of the Dark Place, trapped 
beneath the nightmarish waters under Cauldron Lake. But the thrust of 
Alan Wake 2 won't seemingly be in us attempting to secure his Return, 
but rather in seeing what horrors his ongoing attempts to write 
himself out of a nightmare have wrought on the small town of Bright 
Falls.  


Introducing a second playable character to Alan Wake 2 is perhaps the 
boldest creative decision Remedy could have chosen to make here. 
Players have been waiting 13 years to reunite with Wake, and by 
putting us in the position of chasing his shadow – as the consequences 
of his actions in the Dark Place begin to have horrendous 
ramifications in the real world – is inspired. How this will work in 
practice is speculative at this stage, but the gameplay reveal trailer 
offers hints: FBI Agents Saga Anderson and Alex Casey are assigned to 
Bright Falls to investigate a series of ritualistic murders, following 
the death of one of their own. We see Anderson discovering pages of a 
horror story that is beginning to come true around her, leaving us to 
question whether Wake will be friend or foe. 

That point is further emphasized by some of the stranger things we're 
seeing on our screens. The victim who acts as a catalyst for the FBI 
to arrive in the Pacific Northwest is none other than Robert 
Nightingale – the special agent who becomes obsessed with hunting Wake 
in the original game, appearing as a haunted husk in the closing 
scenes of the adventure just hours after we see him supposedly 
consumed by the Dark Presence. Then there's Agent Casey himself, a 
fictional construct – the protagonist of an action-thriller book 
series written by Wake in-universe. 

That Casey has any sort of tangible presence within Bright Falls 
highlights Wake's desperation to escape his supernatural prison. It 
indicates that he's willing to go to any lengths – willing to write 
any image his mind can conjure – in an attempt to return to the real 
world, consequences be damned. It's such an interesting narrative 
concept, particularly as Remedy has confirmed that Alan Wake 2 will 
feature two story paths that can be played seamlessly in any order; 
intertwined adventures that will reflect and echo one another. 



Alan Wake 2 will get free DLC and two full expansions 

We know that Anderson's story path will see the veteran detective 
attempting to solve the murders occurring all across Bright Falls, but 
what of Wake's journey? That's more difficult to figure out. The 
writer may be trapped in a nightmarish reality but the Dark Place 
operates on dream logic – which would explain why it has taken the 
form of a twisted, nocturnal New York, the city Wake once called home 
and provided the setting for his Alex Casey crime books. Is this where 
we'll see Alan Wake 2 collide with the wider Remedy Connected 
Universe? A tease of what appears to be the Oceanview Hotel certainly 
seems to suggest so, given that The Oldest House's relationship to 
dream logic often led Jesse Faden into an Oceanview Motel throughout 
Control. 

A lot of questions and not a lot of answers. But that's how it should 
be. Remedy had two paths at the outset of Alan Wake 2's development: 
the easy route, another Stephen King inspired action-horror game which 
gives us more of a good thing; or the more challenging, which attempts 
to explore the actions of Wake from a new perspective while allowing 
us to delve first-hand into the tangible dangers of the Dark Place. 
It's this more adventurous framing which is driving my excitement, and 
apparently some big changes to combat and world design too.  

Alan Wake was a linear adventure interspersed with wide-open areas, an 
uncomfortable hangover from when Remedy had hoped to make it a full 
open world game. For Alan Wake 2, it sounds as if the game will be 
contained to more distinct areas – Dark Place New York, and three key 
locations in the Pacific Northwest region; Bright Falls, Cauldron 
Lake, and then a new area known as Watery. So long as these locations 
are densely detailed, and packed with an array of quirky characters, 
then a more intimate scale should work wonders for Alan Wake 2. 

As for combat, we can see in the trailer that Saga is able to use 
light to burn shadows, but it would appear that some fundamentals are 
changing. The camera now clings more closely to the protagonists, 
reflecting inspiration from Capcom's remake of Resident Evil 2, while 
it looks as if Saga and Alan will face different scales of threats. 
Anderson is only ever seen in the trailer combatting single, towering 
enemies, while Wake appears to be being hunted by hordes of flickering 
creatures. A tantalizing divergence, given the nightmare each 
character finds themselves enveloped within. 

There's a lot of Alan Wake 2 left for Remedy to showcase as we inch 
closer towards the October 17 release date, but I'm desperate to see 
more. After years of speculation, Alan Wake 2 has arrived, and it's 
done so in a way that I would never have dared dream. Whether this 
massive shift in tone, style, and action will be a success will depend 
entirely on the execution, of course, but Remedy has put a convincing 
proposition forward here. I always wanted to help Alan Wake escape 
from the Dark Place, I just never thought it would be quite like this 
– and that's damned exciting.  

Alan Wake 2 is one of the most anticipated new games of 2023. While 
you wait for it to land this October, why not check out some of the 
other upcoming horror games we're waiting on.  


Link to the original article: https://www.gamesradar.com/alan-wake-2-isnt-what-i-was-expecting-and-its-all-the-better-because-of-it/