----- Spider-Man 2's spectacle is amazing, but I want to see more of its GTA 5-style character switching -----

Marvel's Spider-Man 2 closed out Sony's jam-packed PlayStation 
Showcase with aplomb. In 12 or so minutes of combined cinematic and 
in-game footage, it looks bigger and bolder than its forerunner in 
ways we could probably dissect from now all the way to its tentative 
"Fall 2023" release date. I'm still reeling from how cool the symbiote 
suit looks in motion, and I cannot wait to explore its living and 
breathing world beyond the boundaries of Manhattan this time around, 
into other areas of NYC, such as Queens.  

But beneath its glamorous, high-octane facade, one feature I'm now 
desperate to see more of is its "near instant" switching between its 
playable characters in Peter Parker and Miles Morales. 



Marvel's Spider-Man 2 trailer introduces Kraven, shows off Symbiote 
suit 

After bashing a bunch of bad guys in a suburban backyard near the 
beginning of yesterday's gameplay footage, Peter Parker realizes the 
forces for good are required across the city. "I'm not going to make 
it in time," he says matter-of-factly, before a prompt lines the foot 
of the screen. [Press square to] Switch to Miles, it reads, and, just 
like that, the action is thrown to Peter's mate on the other side of 
town. Given the switch occurs in the midst of a cutscene, the move 
feels scripted in this instance, but there's a tiny bit more divulged 
on the PlayStation Blog:  "... Speaking of which, this sequel features 
not one but two playable Spider-Heroes, as Miles Morales returns in 
Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 and is a key player in our story. In this demo, 
Miles is in Harlem hot on Lizard’s tail. Speed is of the essence in 
many ways than one. First, get a glimpse at the near-instant switching 
between both our playable Spider-Men."  

Even as it's worded there, it remains to be seen what said 'near- 
instant' switching really means. If it's prompted, like in the above 
scenario, yeah that's pretty cool enough. But if we're able to do so 
on the fly, and at will whenever we like, then I think that could be a 
massive deal. 

Being able to switch between Franklin, Michael and Trevor in GTA 5's 
story mode has long been a great way to push circumstantial, heat-of- 
the-moment, inadvertent chaos within missions, and so the thought of 
being able to do so while hurtling through the air at speed sounds 
amazing. Getting the drop on dozens of unsuspecting foes while dotting 
back and forth between Miles and Peter sounds perfect for stealth 
aficionados; while working through Taskmaster's trans-city time-trials 
with an extra hand could prove invaluable.  


"You’ll seamlessly switch between both Spider-Men across a variety of 
story moments in Marvel’s Spider-Man 2." 

On a more superficial level, I love the idea of being able to switch 
up my style, look and personality – and exploration and combat – with 
a touch of a button, without accessing menus and tinkering with 
aesthetic features such as abilities and costume choices. The 
suggestion of co-op in Marvel's Spider-Man 2 was shot down by 
Insomniac earlier this week, much to the dismay of some players, but 
the ability to switch characters relatively seamlessly in and out of 
action, I imagine, would bridge that disappointment for many.  

Later, the PlayStation Blog post says this: "You’ll seamlessly switch 
between both Spider-Men across a variety of story moments in Marvel’s 
Spider-Man 2. We want players to bask in iconic team-ups elevated by 
our signature set piece moments, and experience the story from the 
perspective of each Spider-Man."  

Which might point closer to story-tied switching, but it's still left 
(I presume intentionally) ambiguous at this point nevertheless. One of 
the most disappointing things about Spidey 2's PlayStation Showcase 
outing was the absence of a concrete release date. It's still on- 
course to land at some point in "Fall 2023", and Insomniac later 
followed up to say the Spider-Man 2 release date reveal is coming 
"soon". We'll likely hear more on character switching before then, but 
even if we don't, it appears we've not long to wait before testing it 
out ourselves.  

Even with a few big hitters missing, the PlayStation showcase was 
nearly perfect 


Link to the original article: https://www.gamesradar.com/spider-man-2s-spectacle-looks-amazing-but-i-want-to-see-more-of-its-gta-5-style-character-switching/