----- This explosive Horizon Forbidden West strategy just seems unfair -----

A Horizon Forbidden West player has discovered an explosive new way to 
power up their Mounts. 

In a clip posted to the Horizon Forbidden West subreddit – which has 
attracted hundreds of comments and almost 2000 upvotes in a single day 
– the player showed off what happened when they gave their "brave 
Mounts some extra firepower"... and the results can take down even 
ultra touch Machines. 

"I started playing around with Explosive Canisters last night and 
found them to be surprisingly powerful," says OP, u/AkinToTheBreach. 
"So naturally, I decided to try to use them to give my brave Mounts 
some extra firepower against these ultra-tough Machines. This might be 
my favorite new weapon. :) 

"The final clip is there just to show some damage numbers of the 
Explosive Canisters for those that are curious about that sort of 
thing." 

And when the player says "some damage numbers", they're being 
astonishingly modest – you can check the action out below: 

Back in April, Horizon's developer said it was working on "expanding 
the world of Horizon with Aloy's next adventure and our exciting 
online project." The latter is most likely the long-rumoured Horizon 
MMO, while the mention of another adventure has fans already getting 
their Horizon 3 wishlists ready. 

However, if you're keen to know what the future holds for Aloy, you'd 
best keep your eyes peeled when playing the DLC as, according to 
narrative director Ben McCaw, hints related to Aloy's next adventure 
are hidden in plain sight within the Horizon Forbidden West's DLC, 
Burning Shores.  

Earlier this month, in a blog post discussing Guerilla's 20-year 
history and Horizon's commercial success, studio director Jan-Bart van 
Beek once again reminded us that this isn't the last we'll see of 
Aloy.  

No, this isn't quite the surefire confirmation that Horizon 3 is in 
the works that some of us need, but it's certainly a promising sign.  

"I'd like to share that we are so excited that Aloy's adventures will 
continue," he said at the time. "We can't wait for you to find out 
where she'll go next." 

See our upcoming PS5 games guide for all the best titles confirmed for 
Sony's latest console. 


Link to the original article: https://www.gamesradar.com/this-explosive-horizon-forbidden-west-strategy-just-seems-unfair/