----- KOTOR 2 modder says Aspyr has done "nothing wrong" cancelling the Restored Content DLC -----

Yesterday, we reported Aspyr Media had confirmed that the Restored 
Content DLC for the Nintendo Switch port of Knights of the Old 
Republic 2 - The Sith Lords "will not be moving forward". 

In a statement posted to its social media channel, the team did not 
clarify why it had aborted plans to bring the DLC to Switch, nor 
offered a refund – instead, players have been given the option of 
selecting one of seven "replacement" games, six of which are on 
Switch.  

While a lot of comments about the decision have been decidedly 
unhappy, one commenter says "Aspyr did nothing wrong" – and they're 
one of the volunteers that created the Restored Content DLC in the 
first place. 

Modder zbyl2 felt compelled to comment on the KOTOR subreddit after a 
player suggested that one of the reasons the DLC was cancelled was 
because of "higher-ups not wanting to give credit to the modding team" 
– something zbyl2 emphatically denies.  

"I made the mod. The above is 100 per cent false, and I'm sad you got 
so many upvotes because that rumor is now going to spread," they said, 
responding directly to the commenter. 

"Aspyr was great to work with, and they offered to credit the whole 
team long before I even asked about it." 

In another comment, zbyl2 added:  "Aspyr did nothing wrong. Quote me 
on that. Shame it ended the way it did. 

"I have nothing but good things to say about Aspyr and our cooperation 
over the past eight years." 

At the time of writing, Aspyr still hasn't formally responded to 
comments from fans who'd rather have a refund than a key for a game 
many say they already own. We'll keep you posted, of course. 

While we're on the topic of KOTOR – did you see that the Star Wars: 
Knights of the Old Republic remake publisher recently dodged a 
question about its development status? 

Last week, publisher Embracer held an investor briefing, where company 
CEO Lars Wingefors fielded questions. When asked about the status of 
the KOTOR remake, Wingefors just said: "no further comments". 

The question about the KOTOR remake's status comes from a report last 
year that claimed it wasn't doing so well. Reports at the time claimed 
that after a bad internal demo, the remake was removed from Aspyr 
Media and handed to Saber Interactive to head up instead and was 
delayed indefinitely with immediate effect.  

Here are all the new games of 2023 (and beyond). 


Link to the original article: https://www.gamesradar.com/kotor-2-modder-says-aspyr-has-done-nothing-wrong-cancelling-the-restored-content-dlc/