----- Diablo patch 1.0.2d nerfs Barbarian shout again, but gives Necromancers a huge buff -----

Diablo 4's latest patch notes are now live. 

"The Diablo 4 team has been diligently monitoring your feedback," 
Blizzard explains in a blog update that details the changes introduced 
in patch 1.0.2d, which include another Barbarian nerf and a big buff 
for Necromancer mains.  

First up on the docket are "balance adjustments to Classes". 
Explaining the thinking behind the changes, the team says that while 
it's "quite happy with the performance of our Classes" overall, it 
"knows there is always room for improvement". 

"While we want players to both feel and be truly powerful, some Class 
builds and synergies are outside of our bounds for what is reasonable 
for the health of the game, so we are reducing their effectiveness," 
the patch notes explain. "As an example, we generally want to avoid 
creating situations where players can survive unreasonably high 
amounts of damage for long periods of time because it too greatly 
warps our vision for how combat should be in Diablo 4." 

Consequently, along with reducing the overall effectiveness of Paragon 
Glyphs, Barbarians will see their Challenging Shout damage reduction 
gained from Skill Ranks halved, dropping from 4 per cent to 2 per 
cent, and the Aspect of the Dire Whirlwind increased critical strike 
chance per second nerfed from 5-10 per cent to 3-8 per cent.  

Another big change affects the Gohr's Devastating Grips – the 
explosive damage gained from Whirlwind has been chopped from 50-70 per 
cent to just 16-26 per cent. Ooof. 

Your maximum cooldown reduction for Blood Chieftain's Aspect has also 
been nerfed, going from 12 to six seconds. 

As for Necromancers? Their Blood Lance damage gets a boost from 67.5 
per cent to 80. Army of the Dead also gets a buff and a cooldown 
reduction – 30 to 45 per cent and 90 to 70 seconds, respectively – and 
Blood Wave damage is boosted from 90 per cent to 120 per cent.  

Other changes include "miscellaneous stability and crash fixes", a 
solution to that issue where a Sorcerer's Deep Freeze makes others 
permanently stunned if they are also at the mercy of another freezing 
effect. For the full list of tweaks and changes, head on over to the 
official website. 

Despite some players crashing out of early runs following glitches and 
bugs, it looks like hardcore Diablo 4 players will be crossing the 
line to be one of the first 1000 players to hit level 100 on hardcore 
mode later today. 

And did you see that this Diablo 4 player has managed to beat the 
Butcher despite being incredibly underlevelled? The Butcher is – as 
many of us have learned the hard way – a meat-hooking nightmare that 
turns up at random in dungeons and has killed off many a hardcore 
run.  

Here, however, it seemingly became stuck behind a wall of minions who 
beat the Butcher whilst the player idles quietly at the bottom of the 
screen.  

Here are some games like Diablo to play until Diablo 4 launches for 
all on June 6. 


Link to the original article: https://www.gamesradar.com/diablo-patch-102d-nerfs-barbarian-shout-again-but-gives-necromancers-a-huge-buff/