----- Today's Wordle hint and answer #714: Saturday, June 3 -----

Save your Wordle win streak with today's hint, designed to give you a 
prod in the right direction without giving the game away. Prefer to 
skip straight to your latest victory, or are you too close to the 
bottom to risk a bad guess? Don't worry—the answer to the June 3 (714) 
Wordle is ready and waiting just below. 

A huge wave of relief washed over me when I finally found today's 
solution: after a string of puzzling non-starters and one rather odd 
green, I had almost given up hope of finishing today's Wordle with a 
win.  


The answer today is another name for a female goat, as well as one way 
of describing a childminder or carer for very young children.  

Yes, a letter is used three times in today's puzzle.  

If there's one thing better than playing Wordle, it's playing Wordle 
well, which is why I'm going to share a few quick tips to help set you 
on the path to success:  

There's no time pressure beyond making sure it's done by midnight. So 
there's no reason not to treat the game like a casual newspaper 
crossword and come back to it later if you're coming up blank.  


The best start for your weekend is a win. The answer to the June 3 
(714) Wordle is NANNY. 

The more past Wordle answers you can cram into your memory banks, the 
better your chances of guessing today's Wordle answer without 
accidentally picking a solution that's already been used. Past Wordle 
answers can also give you some excellent ideas for fun starting words 
that keep your daily puzzle solving fresh. 

Here are some recent Wordle solutions: 


Every day Wordle presents you with six rows of five boxes, and it's up 
to you to work out which secret five-letter word is hiding inside 
them. 

You'll want to start with a strong word like ALERT—something 
containing multiple vowels, common consonants, and no repeat letters. 
Hit Enter and the boxes will show you which letters you've got right 
or wrong. If a box turns ⬛️, it means that letter isn't in the secret 
word at all. 🟨 means the letter is in the word, but not in that 
position. 🟩 means you've got the right letter in the right spot. 

You'll want your second go to compliment the first, using another 
"good" word to cover any common letters you missed last time while 
also trying to avoid any letter you now know for a fact isn't present 
in today's answer. 

After that it's just a case of using what you've learned to narrow 
your guesses down to the right word. You have six tries in total and 
can only use real words (so no filling the boxes with EEEEE to see if 
there's an E). Don't forget letters can repeat too (ex: BOOKS). 

If you need any further advice feel free to check out our Wordle tips, 
and if you'd like to find out which words have already been used you 
can scroll to the relevant section above.  

Originally, Wordle was dreamed up by software engineer Josh Wardle, as 
a surprise for his partner who loves word games. From there it spread 
to his family, and finally got released to the public. The word puzzle 
game has since inspired tons of games like Wordle, refocusing the 
daily gimmick around music or math or geography. It wasn't long before 
Wordle became so popular it was sold to the New York Times for seven 
figures. Surely it's only a matter of time before we all solely 
communicate in tricolor boxes.  


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/wordle-today-hint-answer-714-june-3/