----- Ubisoft will show off Assassin's Creed Mirage, Avatar, and The Crew Motorfest this month -----

Ubisoft has released one of those classic teasers for a show of 
teasers and trailers, which I know you all love to watch. The Ubisoft 
Forward Live 2023 announcement trailer nonetheless lets us know that 
we'll be able to see Assassin's Creed, Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora, 
and The Crew Motorfest—and an extremely vague teaser game. Those will 
show up at Ubisoft Forward Live, which takes place at 10am PDT on June 
12th, 2023, during what was once E3 time. But is no longer E3 time, 
except it's still definitely basically E3 time because every publisher 
is going to have a big show and announce stuff. Just not in one place 
at the same time. 

The trailer kicks off with an almost offensive amount of forcible 
attempts at nostalgia with past E3 highlights, but then actually shows 
some games that you might care about. 

We get a look at some giant blue catpeople on weird pteranodons 
destroying a ducted rotor combat helicopter, a hint at what's to come 
for Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora. We then get a look at camels in the 
desert in a very brown and tan and despite my cynicism here actually 
quite attractive look at Assassin's Creed Mirage protagonists riding 
towards a sandstorm.  

We then jump to some lightning, Red Bull racing iconography, and an 
extremely well-rendered and very nice car to let us know that, yeah, 
we'll get a taste of The Crew Motorfest, the next entry in the series. 
Supposedly that takes place on a nice Hawaiian island—an attractive 
prospect to me at least after being set in a nice discrete chunk of 
Mexico made Forza Horizon 5 such a hit. 

"Wait, what's that game?" asks one of the wooden-voiced people in the 
video as the television shows, uh, some black and gold surface that 
maybe looks like fabric? I guess? There's no real way to know what 
game that's going to be based on the tease. I'm going to go ahead and 
say it's 100% definitely for sure a remake of the only black and gold 
color schemed Ubisoft property I can remember, the poorly-received 
PS3-era shooter Haze. The one that was all about corporate soldiers 
doing lots of drugs. 

Otherwise, yes, Ubisoft did promise that we'll get to see Skull and 
Bones. After so many years of looking at trailers for the thing at E3s 
and Not-E3s, to be frank, it just wouldn't feel like early June 
without a vague tease of the thing. You know what actually, maybe they 
shouldn't make it, they should just make a trailer for it every year 
forever. 

Ubisoft Forward will also include Twitch drops, in the event that 
you'd like a reward for watching their marketing presentation live, 
two of which are actually for Avatar and Assassin's Creed Mirage 
respectively. You can learn more about that and check the full 
schedule on Ubisoft's Forward Live 2023 blog post. 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/ubisoft-will-show-off-assassins-creed-mirage-avatar-and-the-crew-motorfest-this-month/