----- After watching the explosive documentary on Disco Elysium's legal battle, I can't fathom how Disco Elysium 2 will ever be made -----

Gaming YouTube channel People Make Games has released a massive two- 
and-a-half hour-long investigation into the legal battle over new- 
school PC gaming favorite, Disco Elysium, which has seen the game's 
creative leads go to war with developer ZA/UM's corporate ownership 
for control of the game and its future sequel. 

The short version of the dispute is that three of the senior most 
members of Disco Elysium's dev team, including Robert Kurvitz, who 
began crafting the setting 20 years ago, left ZA/UM on bad terms at 
the end of 2021. Those developers say they were forced out when they 
discovered a scheme by a trio of investors to steal the company out 
from under them, while the CEO they accuse claims they were fired for 
failing to meet basic obligations as developers and for creating a 
toxic work environment. 

PMG spoke to all parties involved: not only the shareholders with 
claims to ZA/UM and the Disco Elysium IP, but 16 current employees, 
including four who went on the record and had interviews taped for the 
documentary.  

Throughout the dispute, Kurvitz has presented his story as one of a 
punished artist struggling against anti-creative capitalists, but 
whether or not that's true, the video is as unflattering to Disco 
Elysium's ousted creatives as it is to the executive who pushed them 
out—longtime collaborators at ZA/UM are highly critical of the former 
leads and wearied by the ongoing turmoil. Kurvitz maintains that this 
is all a tactical distraction designed "to create division between 
workers." 

In addition to the 12 ZA/UM employees who remained anonymous, PMG 
spoke to multiple named employees. Disco Elysium writer Argo Tuulik 
wrote iconic characters and scenes in Disco Elysium like Cuno, the 
Hardie Boys, and the Tribunal. He was a longtime associate of Kurvitz 
and Rostov dating back to the early 2000s, but said he felt the way 
Kurvitz presented the events at ZA/UM was "dishonest and 
manipulative."  

I don't think he understood that to lead is a burden, not a 
privilege." 

Tuulik still has a fondness for Disco Elysium's early days: "It's the 
hardest thing I've ever done in my life, but it's also the funnest 
thing I've ever done in my life." He also expresses even further 
nostalgia for his first tabletop sessions in the Elysium setting DM'd 
by Kurvitz, and still praises him as an artist: "I played Dungeons and 
Dragons maybe with five, six different Dungeon Masters. No one comes 
close to Robert's storytelling ability. 

"I think Robert has this uncanny ability to conceptualize things that 
already exist in a way that they seem completely fresh and new." 

At the same time, Tuulik is critical of Kurvitz' management style and 
stance toward the press. When presented with a 2019 Rock Paper Shotgun 
interview where Kurvitz claimed to have written "about half of the 
million words in Disco Elysium," Tuulik responded, "I don't think 
that's true. It doesn't seem fair. It's not strange to hear that, 
because I've heard these crooked estimations before. I've heard worse 
ones." 

Tuulik continues: "The Thing with Robert is that he has this natural 
charisma, he's an incredibly magnetic person… but it's easy to confuse 
this with leadership skills. 

"I don't think he understood that to lead is a burden, not a 
privilege." 

Tuulik, as well as ZA/UM lead artist Kaspar Tamsalu and Disco Elysium 
writer/editor Justin Keenan, described the situation at the company as 
being fluid and confused after the shipping of Disco Elysium, with 
Kurvitz, Rostov, and Hindpere taking a sequence of sabbaticals during 
a period of extensive growth and change. 

Tamsalu, a childhood friend of Rostov and member of the art team on 
the original game, attests to Rostov and Kurvitz "checking out" of the 
studio for a lengthy sabbatical during a critical time—ZA/UM grew 
rapidly from 30 to 100 employees in 2021. "We needed processes, we 
needed to work on the studio culture, all kinds of policies," Tamsalu 
explained. 

"I think the two month vacation to top everything off was really 
difficult for myself and some others to swallow." 


Final Cut writer and editor on the original game Justin Keenan echoed 
Tamsalu's frustrations with Kurvitz' mercurial nature, describing an 
incident where Kurvitz requested writing tests from writers at ZA/UM 
who had already worked on the Final Cut, told Keenan they were 
insufficient, and requested that he inform those writers they would 
not have main writing team duties on the sequel project. Kurvitz then 
supposedly informed one of those writers that he had never even read 
the sample, and had actually just dismissed it out of hand. Keenan was 
similarly frustrated with long sabbaticals taken from other senior 
members, describing an "coterie" of developers favored by Kurvitz at 
the expense of others at ZA/UM. 

Kurvitz would later defend his time taken off work as being what he 
was legally entitled to under UK labor law, and described the 
development of Disco Elysium as particularly grueling on himself and 
Aleksander Rostov, with Tuulik noting in his interview that the final 
crunch on Disco Elysium was particularly difficult for Rostov, and the 
artist himself stating he suffered adverse psychological effects from 
it for a long time after. 

I think it's entirely understandable how the fans have responded. If I 
had been outside, I'm pretty sure I would have responded the same 
way." 

ZA/UM chief technologist Petteri Sulonen, who has playtester and 
"special thanks" credits on the original Disco Elysium, was highly 
critical of Kurvitz' behavior: "When it finally happened, no, I wasn't 
surprised, and I think, in retrospect, that any other solution or any 
other outcome would have meant that Robert would really have had to 
change fundamentally in many ways how he relates to his coworkers and 
how he relates to their labor." 

Additionally, Sulonen alleges that Kurvitz approached him shortly 
before leaving ZA/UM with a request for Disco Elysium's source code, a 
request that, if fulfilled, Sulonen believes would have cost him his 
job. This fact was not known to Ilmar Kompus at the time of Kurvitz' 
termination, whose original justification as recounted by Kurvitz was 
"attempted theft of IP" to sell to another company, and while there 
could be a number of explanations for Kurvitz' request and he was one 
of the artistic progenitors of the IP, it was still an alarming 
imposition for Sulonen. 

As a final note on the ZA/UM employees, all four reported receiving 
death threats from fans of the game who viewed them as having betrayed 
Kurvitz, Rostov, and Hindpere, and said that their hesitancy to speak 
on the record about these events stemmed from the toxic climate around 
the conversation as much as professional concerns. With that being 
said, Tamsalu and Sulonen describe sympathizing with fans viewing 
these events from outside the company, and not liking how things 
turned out, with Tamsalu stating: "If I had been on the outside, if my 
final word had been no to Rostov when he invited me back, I might 
believe him today. But I was there in the trenches doing the work, 
dealing with their bullshit, and they just didn't care about anyone 
else at all." 

"I think it's entirely understandable how the fans have responded," 
Sulonen explained to PMG. "If I had been outside, I'm pretty sure I 
would have responded the same way. But it has felt really unfair." 

PMG's conversations with current ZA/UM CEO Ilmar Kompus, as well as 
Rostov and Kurvitz, are more illuminating for what they lack than 
their actual content. Kompus has a lot to say about Rostov, Kurvitz 
and Hindpere as employees, but largely deflected PMG's inquiries into 
how he acquired his majority stake in ZA/UM, which is where Rostov and 
Kurvitz say the malfeasance happened. Specifically, Kompus is accused 
of "purchasing" a small piece of Disco Elysium 2 concept work for €1 
and selling it back to the company for €4.8 million. This was the 
central claim of Disco Elysium producer Kaur Kender's since-withdrawn 
lawsuit against the company. 

Kompus insists that he had secured verbal agreements from the other 
shareholders for his acquisition of a majority stake in ZA/UM 
following the departure of mega investor Margus Linnamäe, which 
included giving Kurvitz and Rostov stake in a holding company with IP 
related to Disco Elysium 2. Kompus is unable to provide documentation 
of these agreements, which as PMG points out is mystifying behavior 
from an experienced businessman operating at this level. 


This is to say nothing about the involvement of Estonian businessman 
Tõnis Haavel, who was found liable for millions of euros related to a 
high-profile investment fraud case in Estonia. Haavel would eventually 
declare bankruptcy in Latvia, and in a statement to PMG asserted that, 
"Since the civil claim of 11M was sentenced to be paid jointly by 
several persons, I have no way to know how much other sentenced 
persons have paid them but I do know they got all my assets." 

Haavel asserts that he did not declare bankruptcy in another country 
to shield his assets from Estonian courts, while PMG reports that 
Haavel appears to have distributed assets and stakes in valuable 
ventures among close associates (including Ilmar Kompus) in-between 
the implosion of his Azerbaijani land deal in 2008 and the court's 
ruling against him a few years later. PMG also reports that a portion 
of ZA/UM's UK subsidiary is owned by Haavel's romantic partner, Anu 
Reiman, and that this is potential evidence of Haavel as a "shadow 
shareholder" in ZA/UM through Reiman, with these payments and assets 
obfuscated from the Estonian government. 

The explosive success of Disco Elysium catapulted its scrappy, punk 
development team, as well as the shady financiers they had as 
bedfellows, to dizzying heights of international attention and 
scrutiny. The alarming details surrounding Kompus and Haavel are 
further complicated by testimony from the developers PMG interviewed 
that they were genuinely active partners in Disco Elysium's 
development—Haavel himself, of all people, is pointed to as an 
effective organizer and producer. 

The presence of Estonia's most famous perpetrator of investment fraud 
among those accused by Kurvitz, Rostov, and Hindpere of stealing ZA/UM 
is eyebrow raising to say the least, and the ousted developers' case 
against the company seems to depend on whether they can prove Kompus 
did not adequately inform them of his plans and indeed, purchased IP 
from the company for €1 and sold it back for €4.8 million to secure 
the funds to buy his majority stake—did these events go down in this 
way, and if so, is it the sort of ethically dubious financial jiu 
jitsu our legal system frowns upon, or just the normal, pedestrian 
kind we've all become inured to? 

It's not clear where anyone goes from here, no matter where the rights 
end up after potentially years of legal battle. ZA/UM's next game, 
whenever it releases, whether a Disco Elysium sequel or some other 
project, will have this mess hanging over it if Kurvitz, Rostov, and 
Hindpere are not involved, or, as Kurvitz mockingly puts in his 
interview, they don't give a "these guys are ok" sort of public 
statement. It's not clear that Disco Elysium's fanbase would ever 
accept such a thing, no matter how many longtime developers like 
Tuulik, Keenan, Solonen, or Tamsalu are involved with it—I'm not sure 
I'd feel comfortable with another Elysium-set game in this scenario 
either. 

But while Hindpere came off as introspective and open to her former 
colleagues' critique in conversation with PMG, Rostov and Kurvitz 
avoided directly responding to criticisms from the likes of Tuulik, 
instead responding with assertions of their own hardship in shipping 
Disco Elysium and returning to the core claim that their company and 
their life's work was stolen from them.  


In a later comment sent to PMG, Kurvitz stated: "This last-minute push 
is an attempt by Kompus and Haavel—direct superiors of the people 
commenting here—to create division between workers. To bait us into a 
public war of words in order to direct attention from their suspected 
criminal activity. I will not participate in it." 

Kurvitz, Rostov, and Hindpere's abilities as leaders and managers is 
an issue distinct from the question of whether Kompus and Haavel broke 
the law to steal ZA/UM and the Disco Elysium IP. But Kurvitz's 
dismissal of his former artistic collaborators' credible complaints as 
dishonest posturing on behalf of their capitalist masters only serves 
to make those complaints more credible.  

Kurvitz was more keen to counter Kompus' claims that he and Rostov had 
attempted to sell Disco Elysium or aspects of it to Ubisoft, 
Microsoft, Larian, or, bizarrely, Fallout New Vegas and Pentiment 
project lead Josh Sawyer. Not Obsidian, just Josh Sawyer (which the 
developer flatly denies). To extend the benefit of the doubt to 
Kurvitz and Rostov, they argue that the public litigation of their 
ability and fairness as leaders was introduced as a post-facto 
justification for their ouster, and that the initial reason for their 
firing was this accusation of IP theft, one they say is patently 
false. They express a sense of moral indignation of their conduct 
being put into question when they see their life's work having been 
taken away.  

While I'm sympathetic to that sense of righteous outrage, especially 
given their decades-long effort to craft this setting, I still hoped 
for or even expected more introspection and accountability to their 
former colleagues and friends. How would the 100 current employees at 
ZA/UM feel about working with them again, should they somehow win back 
the company after years of legal proceedings? Do Kurvitz and Rostov 
plan on starting over with an entirely new team at new studio Red 
Info, should they win back the IP, and what would that look like, 
knowing that Disco Elysium's development was a grueling ordeal that 
nearly failed multiple times? The anecdotes of Kurvitz and Rostov's 
former colleagues speak to the artists struggling to adapt to a more 
traditional, corporatized game dev environment, while Disco Elysium 
seems to have been a minor miracle delivered by a hungry, even 
desperate crew of artists, many of whom had known each other for 
years—a hard thing to whip up from scratch a second time.  

I don't want to dismiss the strange cloud hanging over Haavel's 
involvement, or the seriousness of Kurvitz, Rostov, and Hindpere's 
allegations against Kompus, but barring some manner of compromise or 
settlement between the parties involved in the dispute—which seems 
impossible, as the situation currently stands—it looks right now like 
winning the legal battle for Disco Elysium would be a pyrrhic victory 
no matter who came out on top. 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/after-watching-the-explosive-documentary-on-disco-elysiums-legal-battle-i-cant-fathom-how-disco-elysium-2-will-ever-be-made/