----- EA is doing some vague nonsense on Nike's NFT platform -----

Nike, never one to pass up a cynical corporate cash-in, obviously made 
its own "web3" platform last year, debuting the .Swoosh "digital 
community experience" in November and selling a bunch of boxes of 
randomized virtual shoes in its beta period. "Build your collection," 
it advertises, "Display, trade, or wear your Nike Virtual Creations in 
video games and immersive experiences." 

Now one of gaming's very own cynical corporate cash-grabbers, 
Electronic Arts, is getting in on the "immersive experiences" to do 
something vague involving its games and Nike's blockchain-powered 
.Swoosh platform.  

"In future EA Sports titles, EA Sports and Nike plan to make select 
.Swoosh virtual creations available allowing members and players 
unique new opportunities for self-expression and creativity through 
sport and style," it said. 

My guess is that means you'll get to have your little custom players 
wear the virtual sneaker designs you bought on Nike's marketplace? 
They're not very clear, here. The quotes in the press release do a lot 
of bloviating about "incredible new experiences" and a "commitment to 
innovation" and "creativity" that's for "fans" and they use the word 
partnership a lot. Is this NFT and Web3 buzzword bait for investors 
because both companies want to be seen as innovators, which is also a 
buzzword? That's my hypothesis. 

For our part, we'll just continue to watch everything to do with NFTs 
crash and burn. We've already pretty much bullied them out of 
mainstream games, which is probably for the best because their 
advocates can't explain exactly how and why they're worthwhile and 
they mostly got used to do lots of crimes. 

That's not to say that—as this EA announcement shows—we're not going 
to see corporations keep pushing new ways to push yet-more unwelcome 
commercial transactions inside games and sell you more things. The 
PUBG people are trying that soon. 

Speaking of EA, resident Football-liker Rich Stanton had his soccer 
sneer on last month as EA unveiled the look of EA Sports FC, its first 
football videogame since parting ways with the FIFA branding rather 
publicly and acrimoniously. He was looking askance at upcoming footie 
game Ultimate Football League to maybe, finally, provide some actual 
competition for FIFA after all—or at least a functional alternative. 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/ea-is-doing-some-vague-nonsense-on-nikes-nft-platform/