----- Diablo 4's first hotfix buffs enemies in the difficulty level you probably haven't even played yet -----

Less than 24 hours after the start of its early access release, the 
first Diablo 4 hotfix is live. The update makes minor nerfs to the 
Sorcerer and Rogue classes, and makes life more difficult for everyone 
by increasing the health of monsters at higher World Tiers. 

Diablo 4 World Tiers are essentially difficulty levels. But the system 
is a little more restrictive than many other games: To begin, you only 
have access to two levels, Adventurer and Veteran—basically your 
"easy" and "normal" levels. World Tier 3 (Nightmare) and World Tier 4 
(Torment) don't become available until after you've completed the 
campaign. 

Moving to higher World Tiers increases both the challenge and the 
reward: At World Tier 3, for instance, you'll get a 100% XP bonus, but 
your non-physical resistances are reduced by 20% and the difficulty of 
enemies is increased. But apparently not quite enough, as Blizzard has 
now given them a bit of a health boost. 

Rogues have been very slightly dialled back in the hotfix, as there 
will now be a brief delay in marking enemies after their Inner Sight's 
unlimited energy expires, while the sorcerer's Flame Shield will be 
put on full cooldown when it's put into an Enchantment slot, so you'll 
have to wait a bit before you can use it. 

There's no indication as to exactly which World Tiers will have 
healthier monsters, but the general feeling on Reddit is that it will 
be W3 and W4, as the first two tiers are available immediately and not 
"later." I've reached out to Blizzard to clarify, but frankly I think 
Reddit's probably right. 

The Diablo 4 hotfix, which takes the game to version 1.0.2, is a 
server-side patch, which means you don't have to do anything—it's 
already done. You can check out the full, very brief patch notes 
below. 

Sorcerer - Class Specialization 

Flame Shield Enchantment 

Rogue - Class Specialization 

Inner Sight 

Items  Shout Skill Cooldown Reduction 

Miscellaneous 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/diablo-4s-first-hotfix-buffs-enemies-in-the-difficulty-level-you-probably-havent-even-played-yet/