----- Diablo 4's fastest XP farm works just like it did in the betas -----


Diablo 4 guide: Everything you need Diablo 4 mount: Race across the 
map Diablo 4 waypoints: How to fast travel Diablo 4 level unlocks: New 
vendors 

Diablo 4's first XP farm is here and it looks like an exceptional way 
to suck the fun out of the new open world action RPG. 

Like clockwork, Diablo 4's most impatient players have found a dungeon 
to repeatedly complete for XP. It takes a little bit of set up before 
you can start grinding for levels. It's technically more efficient 
than barrelling through the campaign, as long as locking yourself into 
one dungeon for hours sounds fun to you. 

The dungeon is Anica's Claim and, I don't know who Anica is, but I 
doubt they expected to have the most popular spot in the Fractured 
Peaks, Diablo 4's opening zone. 

Inside the dungeon—which is helpfully laid out as a big circle—are 
unique enemies you need to kill to complete an objective and unlock 
the door to the final boss. These enemies are elites that have a high 
chance of dropping rare items along with a solid amount of XP and 
gold. The trick to turn this into an efficient way to farm XP, gold, 
and Legendary items is to simply reset the dungeon before fighting the 
boss. 

The sheer density of enemies and the circular dungeon layout make it 
easy to rush through and target the elite monsters. And if you join a 
multiplayer party, it's not only faster to carve through it, but 
you'll earn 10% more XP. 

 Here's how to unlock and farm for XP in Anica's Claim: 

As an XP and gold farm, Anica's Claim is useful if you have absolutely 
nothing else to do. But Diablo 4's campaign already provides you with 
plenty of XP and gold from its dungeons and quests. You have to 
complete the story in order to move into World Tier 3 for the proper 
endgame item drops anyway. I'd only advise a farm like this if you 
have already completed the campaign and want to jumpstart a new 
character. 

Diablo 4's open world map is littered with dungeons, Strongholds, and 
side quests. You don't really need to spend hours inside of a dungeon 
to level up. It's much better as a tool to make up for any 
difficulties you run into as you progress through the game normally. 

I reached a point while playing the review build of the game where I 
was too far behind the level requirement for a story quest and needed 
to gain a few levels. That's the only time I could've used a dungeon 
like Anica's Claim. Unless looping through a single dungeon sounds fun 
to you, I'd urge you to enjoy the first 50 levels of Diablo 4 until 
the real grind begins. 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/diablo-4s-fastest-xp-farm-works-just-like-it-did-in-the-betas/