----- Blaseball, the bizarre, beautiful sports gambling horror sim, is ending forever -----

The first season of Blaseball—not baseball—ended with the opening of 
the Forbidden Book. A solar eclipse immediately followed; the umpires' 
eyes turned white, the Moab Desert disappeared into a gaping 
Hellmouth, and star player Jaylen Hotdogfingers burst into flames. 
That was the beginning, not the end, of the deep, awesome weirdness 
that was the hallmark of the browser-based sports gambling horror 
sim—a later season ended "with a goddamn JRPG boss fight"—but three 
years later, the strange beauty has finally run its course. 

"It is with a heavy heart we announce that we are not going to run the 
Coronation Era as planned and are making the decision to end Blaseball 
today," developer The Game Band announced today. 

"The short of it is that Blaseball isn’t sustainable to run. Since 
Blaseball’s inception, we’ve been fighting against the amount of work 
it takes to keep Blaseball true to itself while financially supporting 
the team and keeping our staff healthy. We’ve tried countless 
solutions to make it work, and we’ve come to the conclusion that this 
fight isn’t one we can win in the long run. The cost, literally and 
metaphorically, is too high." 

Because of that, the studio has elected to put a definite end to 
Blaseball, rather than changing "into something unrecognizable." That 
also means, unfortunately, that many members of The Game Band are 
being let go: The studio said the size of the team "has to change to 
give us enough runway to even begin to make something new." The number 
of layoffs isn't known, but The Game Band said those being let go are 
getting severance, healthcare extensions, and dedicated resources for 
finding new work. 

Signs of trouble for Blaseball have persisted over the past several 
months. The most recent season concluded in early February, and a 
start date for the next still hadn't been announced. Just before the 
conclusion of that season, The Game Band put Blaseball on hiatus, 
saying that after a year of rebuilding the game so it could run "in a 
way that's sustainable for us as a team," it hadn't been able to fully 
achieve its goals. 

"Our hope was to be able to iterate and improve post-launch, but as we 
tried to do that, we realized it just wasn't realistic for the amount 
of work that needed to be done. And it was negatively impacting your 
experience," the studio wrote. "We need to make improvements. We've 
heard your concerns about things like accessibility, missing features, 
site navigation, and other performance issues, and often found you 
saying the exact same things we were saying to each other." 

In order to enable the required work to be finished, the Coronation 
Era of Blaseball was paused, with a promise that "we are going to come 
back as soon as possible." But the situation was clearly more dire 
than The Game Band anticipated. 

We have folks in 3D Art, Community Management, Engineering, Game 
Design, Production, Product Design, or QA that we’d love to find a 
good place for.If you are hiring, please reach out. We have some 
exceptional people to introduce to you.June 2, 2023 

"Blaseball was about finding connection when the world feels out of 
your control," the studio wrote. "It was meant to bring people 
together and connect us across unfathomable distance and despair, and 
it did. All of you found us, and every person who touched it was a 
part of this story. 

"To Fans of Blaseball, who have cheered and cried with us, who watched 
Suns die and Eras pass, who have defied the Gods and death itself, who 
have been with us through the end of the world as we knew it and then 
what came after: thank you. It has been one of the great joys of our 
lives to make Blaseball for you, and we will grieve its loss like 
everything else — together." 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/blaseball-the-bizarre-beautiful-sports-gambling-horror-sim-is-ending-forever/