----- Elden Ring dataminer uncovers alternate early game characters in a renamed Limgrave -----

It's only been a little bit over a year since Elden Ring came out, but 
so much of it is already seared into my brain. Much like leaving the 
sewers in Oblivion for the first time and greeting Cyrodil, that first 
glimpse of Limgrave is an iconic gaming moment, but at some point in 
development it wasn't Limgrave at all, but apparently "Tenebrae." 

Dataminer Sekiro Dubi's latest video focuses on an in-progress vision 
of Limgrave hinted at by files left over from Elden Ring's 
development, one where familiar characters like Nepheli and Blaidd are 
replaced with newcomers or characters pulled from other parts of the 
game. The main focus of this video is Guilbert, a hybrid of Bloody 
Finger Hunter Yurah and Witch Hunter Jerren from the finished game. 

Sekiro Dubi's research into Elden Ring's files shows the skeletal 
remains of Guilbert's questline, which by their reckoning was cut 
before the Network Test of Elden Ring at the end of 2021. Guilbert 
shares Witch Hunter Jerren's weapon and Eccentric armor set, but has 
voice lines recorded by Yurah's actor, and his scripting had him 
hanging out at Yurah's location from the finished game. 

Guilbert was to be a servant of the "God of Vengeance," and would have 
teamed up with you to fight Crucible Knight Ordovis, a boss in the 
final game who, in this build, would have been found where you fight 
Darriwil with Blaidd in the release version. Guilbert then would have 
been a summon for the fight against Godrick alongside Vyke, an endgame 
boss and the guy on Elden Ring's box art—in the final game, Vyke is a 
mid-game invader, end-game boss, and otherwise a ghostly presence 
haunting some item descriptions, but at some point in development he 
seems to have had a full-on NPC questline. Guilbert also would have 
attacked you as an invader if you killed members of a trio of 
Traveling Merchants, pursuing vengeance for their surviving kin. 

In following Guilbert, Sekiro Dubi touches on various ways Limgrave 
changed over development, with its original (and unexplained) moniker 
of Tenebrae just really sticking out to me—it just doesn't feel right! 
In the real world, "Tenebrae" is a Christian religious service leading 
up to Easter Sunday, one I had literally never heard of before despite 
thirteen years of Catholic school, go figure. Sekiro Dubi also shows 
off how Stormhill Shack once functioned as a minor hub for familiar 
NPCs like Roderika, but also drastically repositioned ones like Hewg, 
and previous work by dataminer Lance McDonald positioned the dreaming 
monk Jiko there as well. 

Guilbert's quest looks to have been planned to extend beyond 
Limgrave—he shared his lookalike Jerren's affinity for General Radahn, 
and mentioned hunting down Malenia in cut dialogue. It's unclear as 
yet whether any remnant of those later stages remains in the game's 
files. It's interesting to see the way FromSoft reshuffles and 
recontextualizes its NPCs, even scrapping them altogether, and at a 
late enough stage to have recorded voice overs in the case of 
Guilbert. I also love how surreal it is to see these familiar 
characters behaving in such unfamiliar ways. I'm quite happy with the 
Elden Ring we got though, barring the exclusion of Kalé's phenomenal 
cut questline, which Sekiro Dubi previously covered in another video. 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/elden-ring-dataminer-uncovers-alternate-early-game-characters-in-a-renamed-limgrave/