----- Watch a Thief fan film directed by one of the original game's creators -----

The intro cutscene from Thief: The Dark Project was a wonderful mood- 
setter, cutting between one of Garrett's heists and creepy 
supernatural imagery, heavy on eyes to suggest he's being watched. 
It's also a neat "here's how not to play the game" warning, with 
Garrett killing a guard, an act that summons three more and results in 
him having to beat feet. Now, thanks to the original game's cutscene 
director Daniel Thron we've got another introduction to the world of 
the City: a fan film called Thief – Cutscene Zero. 

It's another of Garrett's jobs gone messy, with Thron joking on 
Twitter, "I guarantee you he's loading his last save right after 
this". Cutscene Zero gets the fantasy-noir vibe down pat, from the 
unsuspecting guard seeing his reflection as he looks out the window 
into the rain, to the narration provided by Viktoria, Thief's femme 
fatale, voiced once again by Terri Brosius. I need this modded into 
Thief Gold somehow. 

Another member of the original Looking Glass development team, artist 
Jennifer Hrabota-Lesser, provided the painting seen 30 seconds in. It 
seems like everyone at Looking Glass wore a lot of hats, and Hrabota- 
Lesser was also credited with A/V support and the website, while 
Brosius was a designer and the cutscene writer as well as an 
outstanding voice actor (most famously, she voiced Shodan in the 
System Shock series). Thron's own credits on Thief include cutscene 
direction, art, and animation, the box art and manual illustrations, 
particle effects, and voice acting for characters as diverse as a 
comedically wheezy ApeBeast and the terrifying voice of The Eye, as 
well as Cutty, Ramirez, Brother Renault, and several guards. 

While Thief is still entirely playable today, with the Gold edition 
available on Steam and GOG, and the unofficial patch pack TFix adding 
things like widescreen support, I'd love to see a remake. Now that the 
System Shock remake is out, maybe it could be Nightdive's next 
project? Though there's always Gloomwood for more of those modern 
Thief vibes.  


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/watch-a-thief-fan-film-directed-by-one-of-the-original-games-creators/