----- Huge anti-government protest in Polish capital Warsaw -----

Hundreds of thousands of protesters have gathered in Warsaw for one of
Poland's largest demonstrators since the fall of communism in 1989.

Most opposition parties have called on supporters to join the march
against the nationalist Law and Justice party (PiS), led by Jaroslaw
Kaczynski.

Among those attending are former Prime Minister Donald Tusk, and
former President Lech Walesa.

The PiS has condemned the gathering as a "march of hate".

The mayor's office for Warsaw has estimated half a million people
attended the event, which fell on the 34th anniversary of Poland's
first partially-free elections.

Many travelled from across the country to take part, and simultaneous
demonstrations have been held in other Polish cities like Krakow.

A wide variety of issues brought protests together, including
frustrations over inflation, costs of living, and rights for women and
LGBT.

Concerns have also been raised against new law accused of undermining
Poland's democracy.

The law, criticised by the EU and US, sets up a commission to
investigate undue Russian influence in Polish politics, and has the
power to ban people from assuming public office for 10 years.

The government denies it is subverting democracy and President Andrzej
Duda has proposed amendments to remove these powers.

But critics say it could still be used against people, including Mr
Tusk - Poland's main opposition leader and head of the centrist Civic
Platform (PO) party.

Opponents say it could also bolster the PiS' standing in this year's
parliamentary elections.

Crowds of people have been pictured waving Polish and EU flags and
holding placards, and participants told the BBC that protesters were
chanting "democracy" and "we will win".

"I came here to defend democracy because I can't stand how our
parliament, the constitutional tribunal are destroyed, the European
Union is diminished," one protester told Reuters news agency.

Donald Tusk, a former head of the European Council, also welcomed
supporters during the "record" march.

"Democracy dies in silence but you've raised your voice for democracy
today, silence is over, we will shout," said Mr Tusk.

Ahead of the event, the PiS accused organisers of of hypocrisy,
tweeting a video that police brutality and violence against the media
while Mr Tusk was in office.

Wojciech Przybylski, editor of Visegrad Insight, told the BBC that
these protests show Poland's opposition groups can unite over common
causes, despite their political differences.

But PiS is still ahead in opinion polls, he adds, and "this is going
to mobilise them, because they know the opposition is for real".

Polish probe into 'Russian influence' angers EU

Poland country profile


Link to the original article: https://www.bbc.com//news/world-europe-65803318