----- Oil production to drop after Opec+ nations meet -----

Oil-producing countries have agreed to continued cuts in production in
a bid to shore up flagging prices.

Saudi Arabia said it would make cuts of a million barrels per day
(bpd) in July and Opec+ said targets would drop by a further 1.4
million bpd from 2024.

Opec+ accounts for around 40% of the world's crude oil and its
decisions can have a major impact on oil prices.

Average diesel prices fell by a record 12p per litre in the UK last
month, according to the RAC.

The seven hour-long meeting of the oil-rich nations, led by Russia,
came amid a backdrop of falling prices and an over-supply of the
commodity.

Total production cuts, which Opec+ has undertaken since October 2022,
reached 3.66 million bpd, according to Russian Deputy Prime Minister
Alexander Novak.

Opec+, a formulation which refers to the Organisation of Petroleum
Exporting Countries and its allies, had already agreed to cut
production by two million bpd, about 2% of global demand.

"The result of the discussions was the extension of the deal until the
end of 2024," Mr Novak said.

In April, it also agreed a surprise voluntary cut of 1.6 million bpd
which took effect in May, a move that briefly saw an increase in
prices but failed to bring about a lasting recovery.

On Sunday, Saudi Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said the
cut of one million bpd could be extended beyond July if needed. "This
is a Saudi lollipop," he said, in what is seen as a bid to stabilise
the market.

Oil prices jumped more than $2 a barrel in early trading on the Asian
markets on Monday, with Brent crude futures at $78.42 a barrel.

Before the two-day Opec+ meeting started, it was widely expected the
oil cartel would make production cuts to prop up prices. It appears
most members were against the idea, as any cuts would impact oil
revenues, which are crucial to keep running their economies.

Saudi Arabia's decision to make a voluntary reduction of one-million
barrels per day was unexpected but does not come as a huge surprise.
As the leader of the pack, and also the largest exporter of oil, it
was the only one in a position to be able to lower output.

From Riyadh's point of view, it is crucial the price of crude remains
over $80 a barrel for it to break even. Saudi officials want elevated
prices to keep spending billions of dollars on ambitious projects
spearheaded by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, as he tries to
diversify the kingdom's economy away from oil.

The move by the Saudis also underlines the uncertain outlook for
demand for fuels in the months to come. Concerns about the global
economy, especially recessionary fears in the US and Europe are
expected to put further pressure on crude prices.

Oil producers are grappling with falling prices and high market
volatility amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The West has accused Opec of manipulating prices and undermining the
global economy through high energy costs, according to Reuters. It has
also accused the group of siding with Russia despite sanctions over
the invasion of Ukraine.

In response, Opec insiders have said the West's monetary policy over
the last decade has driven inflation and forced oil-producing nations
to act to maintain the value of their main export.

Diesel falls 12p but should be lower, says RAC

Why are the world's big oil producers cutting supplies?


Link to the original article: https://www.bbc.com//news/business-65804768